
Here is the much-awaited announcement on registering for the Jan 2026 NPTEL course certification exam.

1. The registration for the certification exam is open only to those learners who have enrolled in the course.
2. If you want to register for the exam for this course, login here using the same email id which you had used to enroll to the course in Swayam portal. Please note that Assignments submitted through the exam registered email id ALONE will be taken into consideration towards final consolidated score & certification.

3. Date of exam: March 29, 2026

CLICK HERE to register for the exam.

Choose from the Cities where exam will be conducted: Exam Cities

4. Exam fees:

If you register for the exam and pay before Feb 09, 2026, Exam fees will be Rs. 1000/- per exam.

5. 50% fee waiver for the following categories:

Students belonging to the SC/ST category: please select Yes for the SC/ST option and upload the correct Community certificate.

Students belonging to the PwD category with more than 40% disability: please select Yes for the option and upload the relevant Disability certificate.

6. Last date for exam registration: Feb 13, 2026 (Friday).

7. Between Feb 09, 2026 & Feb 13, 2026 late fee will be applicable.

8. Mode of payment: Online payment - debit card/credit card/net banking/UPI.

9. HALL TICKET:

The hall ticket will be available for download tentatively by 2 weeks prior to the exam date. We will confirm the same through an announcement once it is published.

10. FOR CANDIDATES WHO WOULD LIKE TO WRITE MORE THAN 1 COURSE EXAM:- you can add or delete courses and pay separately – till the date when the exam form closes. Same day of exam – you can write exams for 2 courses in the 2 sessions. The same exam center will be allocated for both the sessions.

11. Data changes:

Last date for data changes: Feb 13, 2026:
We will charge an additional fee of Rs. 200 to make any changes related to name, DOB, photo, signature, SC/ST and PWD certificates after the last date of data changes.

The following 6 fields can be changed (until the form closes) ONLY when there are NO courses in the course cart. And you will be able to edit those fields only if you: -

REMOVE unpaid courses from the cart And/or - CANCEL paid courses

1. Do you come under the SC/ST category? *
2. SC/ST Proof
3. Are you a person with disabilities? *
4. Are you a person with disabilities above 40%?
5. Disabilities Proof
6. What is your role?

Note: Once you remove or cancel a course, you will be able to edit these fields immediately.
But, for canceled courses, refund of fees will be initiated only after 2 weeks.

12. LAST DATE FOR CANCELING EXAMS and getting a refund: Feb 13, 2026

13. Click here to view Timeline and Guideline : Guideline

Domain Certification

Domain Certification helps learners to gain expertise in a specific Area/Domain. This can be helpful for learners who wish to work in a particular area as part of their job or research or for those appearing for some competitive exam or becoming job ready or specializing in an area of study.

Every domain will comprise Core courses and Elective courses. Once a learner completes the requisite courses as per the mentioned criteria, you will receive a Domain Certificate showcasing your scores and the domain of expertise. Kindly refer to the following link for the list of courses available under each domain: https://nptel.ac.in/domains

Outside India Candidates
Candidates who are residing outside India may also fill the exam form and pay the fees. Mode of exam and other details will be communicated to you separately.

Thanks & Regards,
NPTEL TEAM